Hi, good afternoon. Welcome back. Hope everyone is here now. Let me start. I'm going to share my screen.
So we have seen the pandas before this break. We have seen how we will read out the data from the Excel and the other things. So let's see here.
Data cleaning using panda.
Here we go.
I will start from here.
This is your call app.
But research.google.com and as recap Part 2.
OK, oops.
So we are going to see here how we will do the cleaning of the data using the pandas. So in the previous in before this lunch break we have discussed how we will do the.
How will lead out for the?
Libraries using the fundas. See here how we'll do the data cleaning.
Here we go. Let me take a few files for you just to do the cleaning.
Here it is.
We have the Max.
Yeah.
We have here students.
Oh, Titanic data dot CSV I'm going to use. Let me just put the Titanic data CSV for you.
We will go here.
Then go here.
Google.com.
You can sign in from here.
We will search for Titanic.
I want to see one thing where the data is not clean.
This is again.
Just one data sheet I need, otherwise I will download just a second.
Mm-hmm.
This is data Titan is missing data. It will just download this one.
Vitality translate.
Play the Titan.
Tightening data to.
It is download.
And I have put it here.
You can download from here directly or I will upload. You can download from there. Let me give the link. You can download directly from here from the or I'm uploading it as well so you can download from here as well if you want.
I will go here, open the terminal.
There is git add all git commit hyphen name.
Different name.
I tell Nick.
Telling data.
Yes, me.
With push.
Uh, push it.
So I have push it here. If you want you can take it from here as well and we'll see.
So we'll go over here. You can take it from here as well. So it's up to you now. So I have given you both the links. You can download Windows.
So here we go.
Will go here call lab.
We will.
Go here, upload.
Upload a file.
From here, Titanic data set.
Open.
So we have uploaded it. We will import.
Andas has pity.
DF is equal to DF dot read.
PDA dot read CSV.
OK.
There is.
Dear dot had.
We'll see here they had. These are the values. We'll see here DF dot info.
It is also clean.
Hey, let's check.
Fine, so it's clean, but we'll apply all the things we can see here. DF dot is the null.
You want to check if any item is null, is null.
dot sum.
We will find out if any of these is null. Right now here is no null. I will show you one more example. We have something is null then you can do it. So here is no null.
I've created here one data frame. Here is nothing is null. So I'm creating one data frame and I have put the null here. So here is here is I have put the data name and department IT and all salary.
None, none, none. Here is we have put anything execute. I'm giving this data to you as well, so you need not to type control C.
I have put it in your chat. You can use from here.
So then try up to this level quickly. Then I will show you the missing data. So first of all we have done this read out from the file, but that file is also clean so I have not used this one. This one I just show you. Now I'm going to create one data.
M based on this data set so I'm giving it to the DF is equal to PD dot data frame based on this data.
And if you'll see here if it is not clean, so you have seen the clean what it's giving you the result and if you'll see the unclean one PF dot info this time now if you'll see you'll see here the 9 entry is here.
The columns not null, not null is department object float object 9 entries 0 to 8. We will see here.
TF dot is null.
dot some.
So here you see zero, name is 0, age have one item is null, department is 1, salary is 2.
Can see from here also TF describe.
So this is not cleaned right now. It's happened. We'll see the describe. We'll find out this item salary and all. So once you will clean that the describe also will change.
So first we'll do work to the select, then I will show you how we'll remove these things, how we'll clean it.
So to check if something is null here, we will use DF is null sum.
Do it.
None of this level we have find out the this one null values.
This is just to check my web.
Check.
None values.
Done. Now we can check the duplicates as well. Let's see here code.
TF dot duplicate.
Duplicated.
0.
One false, two false, three false, four false. Eight is 2. The 8th one is duplicate.
And if you want to find out the sum of the duplicate values, how many DF dot duplicated?
So.
So here we will find out one.
No, let's see here. We want to drop the duplicate PF drop drop.
Duplicates in place true. I've done this one. We'll see here DF now.
So we'll see here the the this one is 7. Earlier there was 8 value was 8 here and if we'll see here the now again if we check the duplicated sum after deleting the duplicate and or duplicated control C.
Here is 0. Earlier it was one. See this time it was one. Once I have to load it, it is gone. So you can remove the duplicated value. You can check the DF duplicated if the anything is duplicated so the 8th.
Duplicate. We have removed the duplicate. You can have multiple duplicates also. Here is a small chunk of code. We have put one so this way we can remove the duplicate. We'll do it quickly.
None.
Up to this level.
Right now let's see after deleting the I want to drop the the null values I have right here DF dot drop now.
And here we have right in place.
Is true.
Same place equal to true.
After doing this, I will write here DF, so we'll see here.
The 0245, so those values, those are duplicate. It's have been dropped from here.
That is Drogner.
There is one more method that is fill that will fill the values with the mean or anything.
Here is one more method that is fill now. For example you have done this one. I will show you this is drop now. Let me show you the fill now as well.
Yes, fill sample. So just to do that example fill now because we already have drop it, let me do it here again. What I have done here is I have created this data again.
Just to show you.
Control V.
I will show you the CSV as well. Let's first do this one. Here is I have created the DF. Let's say DF is equal to PD data frame data.
And here I have show you DF dot.
Here are the values for description we can see here.
DF dot shape.
And shape also you will see here 54 we have and we can have here DF dot is null dot sum.
We will see here the.
We have new is null plus one. So here is age is 1, department is 1, salary is 2. We have done this one. We have created it again and we have seen the the null values. Now I will use fill now this time.
The I have showed you, I will show you a pill. First we'll do this one. We have created the data, we have created the data frame, we have described it, we have showed the shape, then we have show the null values, number of null values.
Then we will go for Filna and I will show you an example using the CSV as well. First we'll do up to this level quickly. We'll see Filna on this one.
Done.
Then it is level. If not, do it quickly.
We will see here age have one department, one salary, it's two. So if you want to fill it the syntax.
Age.
So we have right here DF new edge fill not DF new edge mean in places true. We have done this one.
So the the the simple way is not in place of this one. We can use this way also. It's giving you the warning. If you don't want it this warning, let me show you again. I have to go to this, execute to this this.
DF shape.
Here if DF is alone, that one is right now, we will later to this way.
DF.
New.
Here is we will write column name that is age.
H.
colon df new page
And here is dot mean.
We're late here.
Play this.
Is equal to.
Data frame object is not callable.
DF new we want to change the age. Age is DF new age.
That mean in place is true.
OK.
Oh, this is done.
We want to delete.
We have 8 here DF new fill now age DF new in place drop. Now we will see here the DF new.
OK.
dot is a null.
There is a little some.
We'll see here the age is 0 now. Similarly the other things we can check. We will write here. We don't see we can write for the department. So DF new fill now here the column name.
That is department.
Import.
Maint.
There is a department.
Actually department is not this one number, so we will change the salary. Then we'll change the department also salary. It is new salary.
We have done this one too. You can see here.
BF is null.
Control B. So department is also zero. Now you can see sorry, salary is also zero. Now you can see here DF.
Yeah, the TF. So you will see here. Now the department is the IT app that the the things is here.
Yeah.
Department is one is null. Here is that one.
Do you right?
So everything is fixed. Now the department one-on-one place it is null, on which place it is null.
1234567 place. Let me check the DF had 7.
You try news I want to check.
So we have done this one. You can see the TF.
Department I also on one place is null. We will check that one as well so we will change it. But the department is the text. So how will change it that I will show you after this do it up to this level. So what I have done here is.
I have showed you the fill in example. So we have the DEF null sum I have showed then I have changed the age, then I have checked again, I have changed the salary, then check again and I have showed the DEF.
The department is on one place is none. The rest is correct. After this, do it quickly.
Now let's go for this department as well.
So code will light here DF dot in.
Department.
Department DF mode zero in place 2.
There is code. We'll see here.
DF.
We'll see all the things over here. Now you can check.
After this we can check.
Sorry DF dot is null dot sum.
So here is everything is clear.
This is how you will do.
Done. Call of you.
If you want to see here.
EF dot dot drop.
Duplicates.
From here in place to.
You can see here now.
DF.
OK.
There is when it's gone.
Let's say I'm at that. Let's go. So this is how I will clean.
And quickly then I will show you with with.
CSV file will download and put.
1359.
So here the customer CSV dirty. I will download it and I will use it to show you the sound.
Save.
Do first up to this level, then I will use the dirty file and clean that and.
Now let me upload it.
We'll go here.
And I will upload it open terminal.
It add all it commit by finance.
Adding our husband customers.
So that it.
Good push.
We are push it.
Now what we'll do is.
We'll go here.
You can download it from the GitHub. I'm going to upload it here, so let me write here the text.
Cleaning the customer CSC.
still says.
What is traps you will see here?
Uh, here do you have?
Upload.
Customer's dirty CSV open.
Do up to this level. You can go download it from GitHub. I have uploaded only GitHub and you can upload over here. Then we will read out from here. We will write here DF is equal to get content dot CSV.
Uh, we will write the path, copy the path, we paste it here.
Control B. So here we have read out. We will see here TF.
Here it is.
DF dot info.
And.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no. We will see here.
This is a good do up to this level.
Done up to this level. Now we'll see here DF dot is the null.
Doc isn't on some.
We'll see here. Customer ID is 0 is clean. Name have two places is null. Case is on three places null. City is on top place is null. Purchase amount is on three places. Membership on two places.
If you want to check.
Here dot.
Duplicated.
We'll see the duplicated values. So one falls 23789. These are the duplicated. We want to see total duplicated values DF dot duplicated dot sum.
Duplicated dot sum find out the total duplicated values here is.
NP0.
So total duplicated is 0.
So no then.
No replicated values here. Do it up to this level quickly.
None. So fine. Let's take a short break, just 20 minutes. I will be back after offering the break and we will continue this discussion. We will clean this sheet and then we'll wrap up. So let's clean it up for 20 minutes. Let's go and come back.
Hi, welcome back. Let's see here quickly.
To this thing we have seen here.
The duplicate is none here. Right now we have seen the missing values.
So you can see here the missing values. We have the name is 2 times is missing, age is three times missing, city is two time missing, purchase amount is three time missing, membership is two time missing.
And if you see here.
Code DF.
We'll see here.
The name NAN NAN, this thing is here. So we want to fill the name with the unknown where is the non is written. So what we'll do here is DF name.
Name is equal to DF name.
Unknown.
Will not be whatever you want, right?
We have done this one. Now you can see here the DF.
So here is the name unknown.
Unknown variable. The name is not given. It's unknown. You can see here again this DF is null sum. You will see the name is 0 now, right?
So we have done this one, the name first of all.
Then we will go for it.
What else thing is remaining here? Uh.
We'll see here age, city, purchase amount, membership.
The.
In it.
City purchase amount to DF city. Also I'm putting unknown city is equal to.
DF City.
dot.
It's been.
It is unknown.
The best thing is the number.
Here the customer AD purchase amount membership do think is here so we want to change this one as well. So we'll see here the DF info, DF info from here.
Here you will see here this one is membership is object and this customer ID is integer. The age is flawed so the age is flawed. We can see here.
The age is fraud. This one is object so we can put this one is also a string so remaining is membership. Let me change the membership also the default membership control C.
I have put here controlling DF.
Membership.
There is membership.
Membership. We'll see here the membership right now there is gold, silver, NA, silver. So we can put the unknown or we can put something else, for example.
He had put here the basic.
So you can put anything. So now if you'll see here the three object things we have, we have chained them. So if we'll see here.
The DF again. So you have the basic where is the name it's basic and where it does name is not given unknown the purchase amount thing is remaining that we can check.
Good.
So just purchase amount is. Let me change that one. So DF.
Here is purchase amount.
Is equal to DF.
It is amount.
And not.
dot fill.
We have purchased the amount of green. So meanwhile we have it. Now it's done. You can see here the deer.
So you have the DF.
We have the purchase amount everything. There is nothing is missing. Now you can check one more time.
DF is the null sum control C We'll check it quickly.
Control D.
It is this age is remain so let's just do the age also. So I have copied this one control CI have pasted here control V DF age.
OK.
Here is also I have read the mean here is age.
8.
I've done this one. Now you can check it again dear. So here is age of done.
You can see here.
Well, if you don't want these, the mean, you can write the median and write the other thing that's why.
Now it's showing you the decimal point here. You can see here the age is showing you the decimal point. We don't want the decimal age, we want the full age. So for that we can change the data type of age. We'll go here.
DF.
Age.
Is equal to DFH.
As type dot as type integer.
Is it today?
Yes, integer.
Done. So this one is how we clean the data. You can see here DF dot. So if you want to see something, for example the city, you want to check how many unique cities are here in your data frame. So you can see here DF.
City dot unique.
DF City.
dot unique.
OK.
So you will find out the all the cities that you are covering. So in this one we are covering Delhi, Mumbai and Non Pune, Chennai.
And here is your final clean data.
Final Data. It's your deal.
This is your final clear data.
If I need duplicate value you want to see here, let me show you TF dot shape.
Ship.
Shape is a property, so we don't like this. So 10-6 is here. We'll IDF dot drop duplicates in place.
you will see here you can check here tf.shave
So here here. So there was no duplicate, so 10/6 was earlier and now it's 10/6.
So we we can the data you have seen here how we will read out the data from the file. So we have read out from the content customer dot ACF and see here the info, the data types and all. Based on the data type we can apply our things.
We can use the drop line if we want to drop, but I have showed you this film and this one. So here the DF is null is sum. We have seen how many values was null and then we have started doing this. So at the starting there was is was three, the purchase amount 3 membership is since we have.
If you want to run it one more time, you can see here. So I have run it from here. We'll see here the DF. You have all the items here. You'll see here the info, the info here int object and all if you'll find out the null values.
Here is the customer's guide is zero, name is 2 times null, A three times null, city two times null, purchase amount three times null, membership is two time nulls. Then what we have done here is we have changed the name, then we have changed the city.
Then we have changed the membership, then we have changed the purchase amount. Then we have changed the DF. We have seen the DF. There is nothing is null now. You can check the DF is null sum, so all the things are 00. Customer 0 is 0.
Age is remain. OK, so we have clear the age as well. Here we have put the data type of age you will see here.
DF now age is also in this one you can run it again. This DF is a null sum so here the age is also 00 so your data set is clean. So this one you have understand how you will handle the data files using the.
Pandas, let me download it, save it in your drive and upload it.
Here is file.
Save.
And file download.
And we have save it here.
The next session will be on Saturday and that will be the last session and in that particular session, if you want to ask something, you can let me know anything you want to recap and in that session we will create a group photographs as well.
And that will be the, uh, the last fully.
Maybe we'll open it open in terminal. So Saturday will be your last day the next session we get.
Add all git commit hyphen M.
Uh, let's see here. Uh.
The.
43 done.
Quick push.
So today, this much from my end, I am going to end the session. Let's meet on Saturday. Bye for now. Thanks for returning. Take care.
And that content and all you can download might be after this last session. These things will not be available after one week. Bye. Bye for now. Take care. Thank you.